# JAVA-advertisement-project
Console and MVC

The theme of the project is advertisement.

In the Console project, the user is asked how many users he wants to input. After all the input data is entered, a new object is created and the constructor is called. All objects are saved in List-s (mostly the ArrayList is used). The methods for user input are called in a for loop. There are classes created that represent checked exceptions that are thrown so that the program doesn't crash, instead it continues working and gives out a message if an exception occurred. The project contains a generic class that shows the benefits of using generics in Java, such as stronger type checks at compile time, elimination of casts and enabling implementation of generic algorithms. Lambda expression are also used, for sorting an article by its name using the method .sorted(). The code is described using the Javadoc documentation.

The project based on the MVC architecture uses an API called JavaFX. Controller classes are used because they allow connecting the graphical interface elements to the Java program code. Every controller class has a "initialize" method marked with “@FXML” annotation that contains all the logic needed to initialize basic settings of elements on the graphical interface. The component layout organizers that are used in this project are borderpane and gridpane. For the design of the JavaFX application interfaces is Scene Builder used. The user can add data and has the option to show them in columns. Open source database H2 is used for retrieving data about certain articles or users and also the user input is stored in the database. The connection to the databse is made by using a properties file that contains an URL, username and password. The project also uses threads to show how the program can parallel do tasks by using multiple processor cores. With this the threads are sharing resources like memory or files and enable better performance    
